# robosuite Datasets

The repository is fully compatible with datasets collected using [robosuite](https://robosuite.ai/). See [this link](https://robosuite.ai/docs/algorithms/demonstrations.html) for more information on collecting your own human demonstrations using robosuite. 

## Converting robosuite hdf5 datasets

The raw `demo.hdf5` file generated by the `collect_human_demonstrations.py` robosuite script can easily be modified in-place to be compatible with this repository, by using the conversion script in the scripts folder.

```sh
$ python conversion/convert_robosuite.py --dataset /path/to/demo.hdf5
```

Afterwards, observations should be extracted from the `demo.hdf5` dataset (see below).

## Structure of raw collected demonstrations

The structure of these converted raw `demo.hdf5` files is very similar to the normal hdf5 dataset structure, and is compatible with scripts such as `get_dataset_info.py` and `playback_dataset.py`, but it is missing observations (such as proprioception, object poses, and images),, rewards, and dones, which are necessary for training policies. Keeping these raw `demo.hdf5` datasets around is a good idea -- it **allows flexibility in extracting different kinds of observations and rewards** (see below section on extracting observations). The structure of these raw datasets is shown below.

<details>
  <summary><b>Dataset Structure</b></summary>
<p>

- `data` (group)

  - `total` (attribute) - number of state-action samples in the dataset

  - `env_args` (attribute) - a json string that contains metadata on the environment and relevant arguments used for collecting data

  - `demo_0` (group) - group for the first demonstration (every demonstration has a group)

    - `num_samples` (attribute) - the number of state-action samples in this trajectory
    - `model_file` (attribute) - the xml string corresponding to the MJCF MuJoCo model
    - `states` (dataset) - flattened raw MuJoCo states, ordered by time
    - `actions` (dataset) - environment actions, ordered by time

  - `demo_1` (group) - group for the second demonstration

    ...
</p>
</details>


## Extracting Observations from MuJoCo states

As mentioned above, the `demo.hdf5` file produced by robosuite only contains low-level mujoco states - it does not contain observations (such as proprioception, object poses, and images), rewards, or dones - all of which may be needed for learning. In this section, we show how to postprocess these hdf5 files to produce ones compatible with the training pipeline. We provide two examples below - one of which produces an hdf5 with a low-dim observation space, and one which produces an hdf5 with an image observation space. These commands are similar to the ones we used to produce `low_dim.hdf5` and `image.hdf5` files in our released datasets.

```sh
$ python dataset_states_to_obs.py --dataset /path/to/demo.hdf5 --output_name low_dim.hdf5 --done_mode 2
$ python dataset_states_to_obs.py --dataset /path/to/demo.hdf5 --output_name image.hdf5 --done_mode 2 --camera_names agentview robot0_eye_in_hand --camera_height 84 --camera_width 84
```

Note that we released the `demo.hdf5` files for our collected demonstration data as well - this makes it easy to extract observations directly from these files instead of using the pre-defined observation spaces provided in the `low_dim.hdf5` and `image.hdf5` dataset files. For example, our image observation spaces consisted of the `agentview` and `robot0_eye_in_hand` cameras, with 84x84 images, but if you'd also like the option to train on the `birdview` camera images, and you'd like to increase image resolution to 120x120, you can do that easily using the script.

```sh
$ python dataset_states_to_obs.py --dataset /path/to/demo.hdf5 --output_name custom_image.hdf5 --done_mode 2 --camera_names agentview robot0_eye_in_hand birdview --camera_height 120 --camera_width 120
```

The script can also be used to change the rewards and dones in the dataset. We used sparse rewards and dones on task success and at the end of each trajectory (this corresponds to done mode 2 in the script). However, the script can be used to write dense rewards, or change the done annotation to be 1 only at the end of each trajectory (this corresponds to done mode 1 in the script).

```sh
$ python dataset_states_to_obs.py --dataset /path/to/demo.hdf5 --output_name image_dense.hdf5 --done_mode 2 --dense --camera_names agentview robot0_eye_in_hand --camera_height 84 --camera_width 84
$ python dataset_states_to_obs.py --dataset /path/to/demo.hdf5 --output_name image_done_1.hdf5 --done_mode 1 --camera_names agentview robot0_eye_in_hand --camera_height 84 --camera_width 84
```

For more details on how the released `demo.hdf5` dataset files were used to generate the `low_dim.hdf5` and `image.hdf5` files, please see the `extract_obs_from_raw_datasets.sh` script, which contains the commands that were used for our released datasets.

## Citation
```sh
@article{zhu2020robosuite,
  title={robosuite: A modular simulation framework and benchmark for robot learning},
  author={Zhu, Yuke and Wong, Josiah and Mandlekar, Ajay and Mart{\'\i}n-Mart{\'\i}n, Roberto},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.12293},
  year={2020}
}
```